thechairmansbao.com top 30 chengyu
显而易见
Xiǎn’ér yì jiàn
This high-usage Chinese expression means “obvious” or “clear to see”. The phrase implies that the truth is readily apparent if you have a clear mind and an unbiased perspective. Although you may not hear it often in everyday conversation, you will certainly come across it in debates, formal presentations, essays, and written arguments. 

thechairmansbao.com top 30 chengyu
众所周知
Zhòng suǒ zhōu zhī
Another high-frequency chengyu meaning “it is well-known that…” or “everybody knows that…”. It is a favourite rhetorical device of high school students when introducing arguments in essays. It can also sometimes have a negative connotation, as in something being self-explanatory. 

thechairmansbao.com top 30 chengyu
前所未有
Qián suǒ wèi yǒu
This idiom meaning ‘unprecedented’ or “never happened before” is also relatively high-frequency – it regularly appears on lists of Top 10 Commonly Used Chengyu in News broadcasts. It comes from a poem by Tang Dynasty writer Du Fu where he describes the unprecedented severity of a snowstorm. 

thechairmansbao.com top 30 chengyu
不可思议
Bù kě sī yì
This Chinese idiom was originally a Buddhist term describing those mysteries of the universe that can’t be explained. So it means “unbelievable” or “inconceivable”. 

thechairmansbao.com top 30 chengyu
千方百计
Qiān fang bǎi jì
The meaning of this Chinese idiom is literally “a thousand ways, a hundred plans”, and so it means “to do everything possible”. This is one of the chengyu you might come across on an HSK word list. It is believed to originate from a Confucian encyclopedia in which the scholar, Zhu Xi, discusses the ways to catch a thief. 

thechairmansbao.com top 30 chengyu
先发制人
Xiān fā zhì rén
先发制人 is a frequently used Chinese idiom that translates to “pre-emptive strike” or “take the initiative to subdue the enemy”. Its literal meaning is something like “first attack the people…”, and it derives from a historical event at the end of the Qin Dynasty. Like many chengyu, there’s a long and intricate story behind it. In summary, during a period of rebellions throughout the country, three rebel leaders convened to discuss their next move. Two of the leaders recognized that the third was weak and hesitant, so they made a bold move: before he could say a word, they swiftly cut off his head and took charge of the rebellion. 

Initially, this Chinese expression was used to talk about military strategy but now can be used in other situations such as sport and business. 

thechairmansbao.com top 30 chengyu
乱七八糟
Luàn qī bā zāo
This relatively common saying is used to describe something disorganised and messy. On first reading, the literal meaning “chaotic seven, eight bad” makes no sense at all. However, it is based on two actual historical events. The “chaotic seven” refers to the chaotic period in Chinese history when seven kingdoms revolted against the Han Dynasty in 154BC. The “eight bad” refers to another rebellion five hundred years later, in which eight would-be kings contended for the vacant emperor’s throne in what came to be known as the Eight Kings Rebellion. 

thechairmansbao.com top 30 chengyu
脱颖而出
Tuō yǐng’ér chū
The meaning of this expression is “talent or skill comes to the fore”. It comes from an old story from the Warring States period. The chengyu is comparing a capable person to an awl in a cloth bag (an awl is a sharp pointed tool for making holes in leather and other fabrics). Even though it is inside the bag, everyone can see the sharp point sticking out – like talent, it is hard to keep hidden.  

一见钟情
Yī jiàn zhōng qíng
This Chinese idiom translates into “love at first sight” and is mostly used to describe romantic love between two people. However, you could also use it to describe a thing you love the first time you see it. 

thechairmansbao.com top 30 chengyu
一心一意
Yī xīn yī yì
Literally, this means “one heart, one mind”. It can be used in a variety of contexts but most commonly in a romantic sense. For example, you could use this Chinese expression if you wanted to say that you loved someone with all your heart. 

thechairmansbao.com top 30 chengyu
三心二意
Sān xīn èr yì
Still on the subject of love and romance, this is another idiom used for matters of the heart. However it is almost the antonym of 一心一意; it means “three hearts, two minds” or, in other words, to be unfocused and not know what you want. So in matters of the heart and romance, it implies that you aren’t really committed to the relationship. 

thechairmansbao.com top 30 chengyu
马马虎虎
Mǎmǎ hǔhǔ
This Chinese idiom is a popular one for foreigners to learn because it is so simple to remember (literally “horse horse tiger tiger”). It can sound a bit old-fashioned, more likely to be used by the older generation. Its main meaning is “careless” or “sloppy” but is now also used to mean “so-so” or “passable”.  

thechairmansbao.com top 30 chengyu
一举两得
Yī jǔ liǎng dé
We all know the saying in English “to kill two birds with one stone”, that is do one thing but get two benefits, and this Chinese expression is very similar in meaning. The literal translation is “one act two gains”. This idiom comes from a story about a village that was being terrorised by two tigers killing all their cattle. One of the smarter villagers came up with a plan of action: wait until the two tigers fight each other. The stronger tiger will kill the weaker one, but most probably will be injured in the process, making it easier for the villagers to finish it off. 

thechairmansbao.com extra expressions
出人意料
Chū rén yì liào
This Chinese idiom means “unexpected” or literally “beyond people’s expectations”.  

thechairmansbao.com extra expressions
独一无二
Dú yī wú’èr
The meaning of this idiom is “unique and unmatched”, “unrivalled”. 

thechairmansbao.com extra expressions
忠言逆耳
Zhōng yán nì’ěr
This has the meaning of “faithful words offend the ear”, in other words: the truth hurts. 

thechairmansbao.com extra expressions
理所当然
Lǐ suǒ dāng rán
A not uncommon chengyu, it means “as it should be” or “naturally”. 

thechairmansbao.com chengyu for work
雄心勃勃
Xióng xīn bóbó
Some of the most common Chinese idioms are those that describe personality types. 雄心勃勃 means “ambitious” (literally “mighty heart and exuberant”). Although in English ‘ambitious’ can sometimes have a negative meaning, this Chinese idiom generally has a positive connotation. 

thechairmansbao.com chengyu for work
能者多劳
Néng zhě duō láo
Here’s a handy saying for work: “capable people should do more of the work”. You can use this when delegating a task you don’t want to do because you’re flattering the person while fobbing off the work to them! 

埋头苦干
Mái tóu kǔ gàn
This idiom is used to describe working hard and with deep concentration and means “to bury oneself in work” or “up to one’s neck in work”. (It literally means “head down, working hard”). 

thechairmansbao.com chengyu for work
废寝忘食
Fèi qǐn wàng shí
Another idiom to describe “hard-working”, this chengyu literally means “fail to sleep, forget to eat”, or one is working so hard they have no time to eat and sleep. 

thechairmansbao.com chengyu for work
胸有成竹
Xiōng yǒu chéng zhú
This chengyu has the meaning of gaining confidence by being well-prepared for something, and by having a well-thought-out plan in mind. It comes from the story of the painter who observed bamboo for many years, at all times of the day, in all seasons and types of weather, so he was then able to paint a bamboo scene without draft sketches. 

thechairmansbao.com chengyu for work
一丝不苟
Yī sī bù gǒu
This can be a good quality to have in the workplace because it means being meticulous in your work and paying attention to details. 

thechairmansbao.com chengyu for work
半途而废
Bàn tú’ér fèi
Hopefully, you won’t need this Chinese idiom to talk about your work because its literal translation is “halfway but fail”, or “to give up when the job is only half done”. It comes from the story of a man who had a tendency to begin things but would give up halfway. At one point, his wife encouraged him to pursue his studies, but as soon as he encountered difficulties, he naturally abandoned them and came back home. In response, his wife cut in half the silk material she had been weaving, explaining that just as she had wasted her time making the cloth by cutting it in two, he had also wasted his time by not completing his studies. 

thechairmansbao.com chengyu to impress friends
卧虎藏龙
Wò hǔ cáng lóng
Everyone knows the Chinese movie Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. But did you know the title actually comes from a Chinese idiom? It is from a Northern Zhou dynasty poem and has come to be used to describe people or things with hidden talents, waiting to be discovered.  

thechairmansbao.com chengyu to impress friends
入乡随俗
Rù xiāng suí sú
The literal meaning of this chengyu is “when you enter another region, follow the customs there”, or as we would say in English “when in Rome do as the Romans do”. In the original story, two merchant brothers travelled to a remote town where the local customs were backward and unrefined. One of the brothers accepted the principle of doing as the Romans do and adopted their customs. As a result, the town welcomed him and ended up buying his wares at a high price. But the other brother refused to act like the locals, angering them and they ended up driving him out of the town. 

thechairmansbao.com chengyu to impress friends
一路平安
Yī lù píng’ān
This chengyu is a way to wish people a safe journey, particularly if they are travelling some distance. It literally means “journey safe and peaceful”. It is a little more sophisticated than other bon voyage expressions (like 旅途愉快) because it is a quote from a Ming Dynasty poet, Fan Yiyi. 

thechairmansbao.com chengyu to impress friends
掘墓鞭尸
Jué mù biān shī
This Chinese idiom is a bit macabre because it translates as “digging up graves and whipping corpses”! It comes from an incident from the Warring States Period of Chinese history. The king had exiled one of his generals while also having the general’s father and brother put to death. When the king died, the vengeful general returned to his home kingdom, dug up the king’s grave, and had him whipped 300 times. (He also stamped on the corpse multiple times for good measure). Naturally, it is used to describe a deep hatred or a sadistic nature. 

thechairmansbao.com chengyu to impress friends
熟能生巧
Shú néng shēng qiǎo
Let’s finish with a Chinese idiom that can be used to keep you motivated while you learn Chinese. This chengyu is from a tale about an archer who was displaying his skills in front of a crowd of admirers. Everyone applauded his skill except for one old man who wasn’t impressed. The archer, annoyed, asked the old man what he could do that was special. The old man placed a bottle on the ground, then put a coin with a hole in the centre on the mouth of the bottle. He then lifted his arm and from a height poured oil through the hole in the coin and into the bottle, without spilling a drop. The amazed crowd asked how he did it, and he replied “I practised a lot”. This chengyu can be translated as “practice makes perfect”. 
